On the last Sunday in February, ODD held an ideation session at the Horn program on the University of Delaware campus in Newark. 
About 40 people were in attendance to brainstorm ideas for the 2018 open data challenge (http://opendatachallenge.com/). The mission for this year’s open data challenge is to make Delaware the most accessible state in the country. Accessibility is a broad term. It could relate to ensuring that disabled residents are able to fully participate in society. It could also relate to ensuring that all socio-economic and demographic groups have the opportunity to fully participate in society. The grand prize for winning the ideation challenge is $20,000 with several smaller prizes for runner up groups. The sponsors for the event are: TechImpact, DNREC, DelDOT, and the Delaware Information Center. Representatives were on hand to introduce themselves to participants.
 
After Ryan and David kicked off the event, Zach Jones and Matt Criscuolo, University of Delaware undergraduates from the Horn Program, 
led the session. Following team building activities, the groups brainstormed solutions to the question, “How might we increase access to 
outdoor and natural environments for all of Delaware?” Starting with neon sticky notes and scribbled ideas, these ideas were grouped by 
themes and specific populations. Ultimately, the design-thinking session had each group narrow themes and goals to brainstorm on one idea.  At the end of the session, teams shared their ideas with the entire group. Ideas included all in one apps that provide park maps, events, 
and transit information; an in-park service kiosk complete with a first aid kits and park maps; social media data flows in order to collect information on parks and turn that data into dashboard data for park managers; and an equipment library that would allow residents to access athletic equipment.
 
The Open Data Challenge opens with a Data Jam on April 2 and closes on May 7. At upcoming Open Data Challenge events participants have 
more opportunities to develop their ideas. Next up is a mapping event on Thursday, March 1.
